Docs for our new website (#209)
lf-lang/lf-lang.github.io: docs/developer/website-development.mdx

## Infrastructure

### Docusaurus

Our new website is built on top of [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/), a documentation website generator maintained by Meta. Most of the functionalities are built with Docusaurus or plugins made for it to ensure that we spent minimal effort touching actual infrastructure code. You can find documentation on their website. Most of the website customisation can be done by tweaking configurations without touching any code with docusaurus.

Below are some components we made to accomodate our special needs.

### Syntax highlighting

Highlighting is handled by two separate plugins:

For languages other than Lingua Franca, highlighting is handled by Prism, which is included in Docusaurus. You can find more details in Docusaurus documentation.

For Lingua Franca, highlighting is handled by [Shikiji](https://github.com/antfu/shikiji). This is mainly because we only have TextMate grammar definition and it is not easy to convert from it to Prism

> Like Prism, we are running Shikiji in browser and the code is updated in browser by React after it is highlighted. Shikiji can, but is not encouraged to, run in browsers, since it is big in size and expensive in computation power. Yet running it in browser might help SEO and makes maintenance easier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like Prism, we are running Shikiji in browser and the code is updated in browser by React after it is highlighted. Shikiji has a relatively large footprint, so its not necessarily encourage to run in browsers. Yet running it in browser might help SEO and makes maintenance easier.
```

> The component we created is `ShikijiLFHighlighter` in `src/components/ShikijiLFHighlighter/index.tsx`. As Shikiji highlights code asynchorously, the component will display the unhighlighted code first, and asynchorously update the HTML to be the one with highlighted code with React.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The component we created is `ShikijiLFHighlighter` in `src/components/ShikijiLFHighlighter/index.tsx`. As Shikiji highlights code asynchorously, the component will display the unhighlighted code first, and asynchronously update the HTML to be the one with highlighted code with React.
```

Upon loading the webpage, Shikiji will be initialised in the browser, loading grammars of all target languages and Lingua Franca, as configured in `clientModules` section in `docusaurus.config.js` and `src/components/ShikijiLFHighlighter/shikijiloader.ts`. 

We further swizzled Docusaurus' `CodeBlock` to use `ShikijiLFHighlighter` if the code language matches a pattern that indicates the code language is Lingua Franca, so using ``` notation in Markdown with language `lf` could give us the correct highlight result.

:::info

> Unlike the custom syntax highlighter in our old website, without specifying `target C`, the highlighter will not be able to highlight target language code correctly as it lacks context - even if the language speficied is `lf-c`. This will be solved in future updates to the highlighter.

Reviewer: Is this still true?

Author: Yes, this is still true for the time being.

Reviewer: Is there a GitHub issue for this? If not, please create one.

## Editing the Handbook

The handbook is the most updated part of the website and it includes quite a bit of infrastructure to support writing pages that describe features in any or all of the target languages. The root of the handbook pages in the `packages/documentation` part of the repo. That directory has a useful [README file](https://github.com/lf-lang/website-lingua-franca/blob/main/packages/documentation/README.md) that describes the structure and provides instructions for inserting code examples in any target language and target-specific text within a body of target-independent text.

## Infrastructure

### Docusaurus

> Our new website is built on top of [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/), a documentation website generator maintained by Meta. Most of the functionalities are built with Docusaurus or plugins made for it to ensure that we spent minimal effort touching actual infrastructure code. You can find documentation on their website. Most of the website customisation can be done by tweaking configurations without touching any code with docusaurus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our website is built on top of [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/), a documentation website generator maintained by Meta. Most of the functionalities are built with Docusaurus or plugins made for it to ensure that we spent minimal effort touching actual infrastructure code. You can find documentation on their website. Most of the website customization can be done by tweaking configurations, without touching any Docusaurus code.
```

Below are some components we made to accomodate our special needs.

### Syntax highlighting

Highlighting is handled by two separate plugins:

For languages other than Lingua Franca, highlighting is handled by Prism, which is included in Docusaurus. You can find more details in Docusaurus documentation.

For Lingua Franca, highlighting is handled by [Shiki](https://github.com/shikijs/shiki). This is mainly because we only have TextMate grammar definition and it is not easy to convert from it to Prism.

> Like Prism, we are running Shiki in browser and the code is updated in browser by React after it is highlighted. Shiki has a relatively large footprint, so its not necessarily encourage to run in browsers. Yet running it in browser might help SEO and makes maintenance easier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like Prism, we are running Shiki in browser and the code is updated in browser by React after it is highlighted. Shiki has a relatively large footprint, so its not necessarily encouraged to run in browsers. Yet running it in browser might help SEO and makes maintenance easier.
```

Upon loading the webpage, Shiki will be initialised in the browser, loading grammars of all target languages and Lingua Franca, as configured in `clientModules` section in `docusaurus.config.js` and `src/components/ShikiLFHighlighter/shikiloader.ts`. 

We further swizzled Docusaurus' `CodeBlock` to use `ShikiLFHighlighter` if the code language matches a pattern that indicates the code language is Lingua Franca, so using ``` notation in Markdown with language `lf` could give us the correct highlight result. You can check `src/theme/CodeBlock/index.js` for more details.

:::note
Unlike the custom syntax highlighter in our old website, without specifying `target C`, the highlighter will not be able to highlight target language code correctly as it lacks context - even if the language speficied is `lf-c`. This will be solved in future updates to the highlighter.
:::

#### Syntaxes for Lingua Franca Syntax Highlighting
##### In Markdown

In Markdown, the only possible way to highlight Lingua Franca code is to use the ``` notation with `lf-*` language designation, e.g.:
`````markdown
```lf-c
target C;
main reactor Troll {
    // ....
}
```
`````

##### In MDX

> Apart from the markdown syntax, you can also use `<CodeBlock />` component which is provided by Docusaurus. You can check [here](https://docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features/code-blocks#usage-in-jsx) for more notermation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apart from the markdown syntax, you can also use `<CodeBlock />` component which is provided by Docusaurus. You can check [here](https://docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features/code-blocks#usage-in-jsx) for more details.
```

> Alternatively, we have created a bunch of useful utility components to aid the target selection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have also created a bunch of useful utility components to aid the target selection.
```

For this, we built `ShowOnly` which reads the selected tab from `@docusaurus/theme-common/internal/useTabs` and displays the information inside if the target selected matches, and the output is a `<div>` or a `<span>` so that it looks like it's blended in. This is hacky and could break any time if docusaurus decides to change how their `Tabs` work.

##### Usage
```jsx
    <ShowOnly c cpp
    inline>
    {/* Markdown contents */}
    </ShowOnly>
```
Where the target languages could be a subset of all targets which we support.  
If you include `inline` it will result in a `<span>`, if not, a `<div>`.

##### Examples
```jsx
The language which you used yells:
<ShowOnly c cpp >Segfault!!!!!!</ShowOnly>
```

:::note[Rendered as]

The language which you used yells:
<ShowOnly c cpp >Segfault!!!!!!</ShowOnly>

:::

```jsx
I am <ShowOnly c cpp inline>not</ShowOnly> memory safe!
```

:::note[Rendered as]

I am <ShowOnly c cpp inline>not</ShowOnly> memory safe!

:::

#### ShowIfsInline

:::warning
`ShowIfsInline` uses hacky Docusaurus-internal methods for the time being. To ensure better compatibility, you should prefer `ShowIf`.
:::

> :::danger

Reviewer: We can leave it, but this "danger" note shouldn't be shown on the website, so let's remove it.

TBD, I didn't find any usage for now; maybe drop it?
:::

### Code Importation

> Unlike the previous website where a preprocessor is needed for the code to be displayed correctly, for this website we used MDX with Webpack loader. This allows us to "import" the Lingua Franca source code as a string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike the previous website that used a preprocessor to correctly display the code, this website we uses MDX with Webpack loader. This allows us to "import" the Lingua Franca source code as a string.
```

import Cpp_HelloWorld from '../assets/code/cpp/src/HelloWorld.lf';
import Py_HelloWorld from '../assets/code/py/src/HelloWorld.lf';
import Rs_HelloWorld from '../assets/code/rs/src/HelloWorld.lf';
import TS_HelloWorld from '../assets/code/ts/src/HelloWorld.lf';

<NoSelectorTargetCodeBlock c={C_HelloWorld} cpp={Cpp_HelloWorld} py={Py_HelloWorld} rs={Rs_HelloWorld} ts={TS_HelloWorld} lf />
```

:::note[Rendered as]

import C_HelloWorld from '../assets/code/c/src/HelloWorld.lf';
import Cpp_HelloWorld from '../assets/code/cpp/src/HelloWorld.lf';
import Py_HelloWorld from '../assets/code/py/src/HelloWorld.lf';
import Rs_HelloWorld from '../assets/code/rs/src/HelloWorld.lf';
import TS_HelloWorld from '../assets/code/ts/src/HelloWorld.lf';

<NoSelectorTargetCodeBlock c={C_HelloWorld} cpp={Cpp_HelloWorld} py={Py_HelloWorld} rs={Rs_HelloWorld} ts={TS_HelloWorld} lf />

:::

#### DynamicMultiTargetCodeblock

:::danger
This is not working properly with versioning and will have issues with Webpack performance!
:::

:::danger
This is not working properly now! Need to fix the file path in `content` in `DynamicMultiTargetCodeblock.tsx`.
:::

> If you are **really** lazy, there is a utility which I wrote, `DynamicMultiTargetCodeblock`, that allows you to only supply a LF filename and all files will be dynamically imported. The issue is Webpack is not intelligent enough so if you use it, it will probably load all LF files in `assets`. Also, because relative import appears to be impossible, using it will always get you the latest code examples. See `src/components/LinguaFrancaMultiTargetUtils/DynamicMultiTargetCodeblock.tsx`.

Reviewer: If we don't want people to use it, which it seems like we don't, this should not be part of the public-facing documentation. This looks more like something that should go into the comments of `DynamicMultiTargetCodeblock.tsx`.

Reviewer 2: OK, done

##### Examples

```tsx
<DynamicMultiTargetCodeblock c cpp ts rs py file="HelloWorld" />
```

To suppress warning, add 

```tsx
<DynamicMultiTargetCodeblock doNotTransformInMDX c cpp ts rs py file="HelloWorld" />
```

> #### DynamicMultiTargetCodeblock with TransformDynamicLFFileImportToStatic

Reviewer: Like previous comment. Move to comments in tsx file?

Reviewer 2: OK, done

:::

A way to make `DynamicMultiTargetCodeblock` more sane is to use remark and preprocess it into a bunch of import statements and a `NoSelectorTargetCodeBlock`.

`src/remark/TransformDynamicLFFileImportToStatic.ts` is a remark plugin that does so. It looks like a disaster and I don't understand it anymore 5 months after writing it.

To use it, add it to `docusaurus.config.ts` as a ReMark preprocessor.

But don't use it. 

## Routing from the Legacy Site

`docs/legacy_routing.ts` contains the old-to-new URL mappings which allows people to access the correct content if they used a URL from the old website. It is then imported in `docusaurus.config.ts` For more, check `@docusaurus/plugin-client-redirects`.

## Maintenance, and point-of-contact

For docusaurus-related question, you should redirect your question to [them](https://github.com/facebook/docusaurus).

The LF syntax file is fetched [here](https://github.com/lf-lang/vscode-lingua-franca/blob/main/syntaxes/lflang.tmLanguage.json) and should be updated from time to time. If the syntax highlighting is not working properly, check the TextMate grammar, then check with [shiki](https://github.com/shikijs/shiki).

> For website-specific utilities, you can open an issue on GitHub or [ask @axmmisaka directly](/community). The TS code quality is not great and needs to be improved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For website-specific utilities, you can open an issue on GitHub or [ask @axmmisaka directly](/community).
```
